That is the glorification of God,
that is the power of the Holy Spirit.
That's the encounter with living
God who is given to us but it is
not given for us just to fill up with it
and enjoy, but to transform this world
Today I will mostly focus on those secular
structures that this spiritual renewal needs to
recover and renew.
First, I would like to read a text to you. You saw a quote
on our Facebook event that Marija put up
and I will explain why she put it.
Jesus says in Matthew's gospel: "You are the
salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its saltiness,
how can it be made salty again?
You are the light  of the world.
A town built on a hill cannot be hidden."
As we all know there is not
much salt. Salt is often invisible.
Can anyone see salt in a soup?
No one sees it. But try to imagine what
would that soup taste like without salt.
It would be tasteless.
When Jesus says this to Christians, He is
aware that there won't be that many real
ones among them, but those
who are, need to give that spice.
They need to bring Jesus's light
into the world right where they are.
There's not much salt.
Each one of you is sent right
where you are to bring Jesus's light
and the more you are open to God, you
become a stronger weapon in His hands.
A colleague of mine, a leader, says:
“You become like God's secret agent.”
That is true.
You are inserted where you are to bring
Christ's light and to plunder souls from the devil.
When he first told me this
I thought he might be exaggerating.
Now that I live like that, I see that it is very much true.
Each one of you is called to bring that difference.
Remember that simple image of
soup with and without salt.
Jesus spoke in such a simple way
everybody could understand him.
From Pharisees and literati to farmers and
husbandmen. His speech was simple but deep.
That's how our acts should
look like: simple but deep.
God entrusted our charismatic movement
the special grace and responsibility.
In his addressing to charismatics on
the 50th anniversary, Pope Francis
said that the charismatic movement is a
current of grace that needs to pour everywhere.
That we must not stay where we are.
That that current needs to pour on every
parish, every church, and the whole world.
It seems to me that is where
the greatest problems begin.
When we need to hand over the power,
consolation, and experience that we received,
our comfort and regard are stopping us.
That's why the Pope has been calling us
for years now, from the beginning of his
pontificate, to step out from sacristy.
The Second Vatican Council and
previous popes have always been
encouraging us Christians to
cure secular structures.
We need to become aware
that the power that has been
given, is given to us for renewal.
Firstly, we are given the strength to repent
and to eliminate the sin.
Considering that a life in sin hasspiritually
drained us, God gives that consolation.
And that's why people who experience
God's mercy for the first time
often cry and physically feel God's presence
even though they've never done that before.
God renews man from the inside
but he also gives him the power
to do something with that mercy.
The problem is we often stop after receiving
mercy. I am often joking at our leaders' meeting
when we criticize each other
that our charismatic movement
became charismatic stagnation
or something similar to stagnation.
It all stopped.
God gave us that mercy to renew
secular structures.
Since God gave me the grace to travel through
Western and Eastern Europe a lot for the past
four years I would like to draw your
attention to these doings in Zagreb
and the whole of Croatia. They are
a phenomena on the European level.
I talked to a lot of priests, bishops, and leaders
that are frequently in contact with the Pope.
This wakening of youth,
where a great number of them
have the experience of the living God
and live sacramentally is unique in Europe
and it is not happening anywhere else.
Priests are in shock when they come here
from Western Europe and see full churches in
Zagreb and lines in front of confessionals
even on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays.
God wouldn't do such a thing accidentally
because He never did anything by accident.
I would like to open your eyes so you
understand the moment that you're
living in because you are the
ones that need to carry this.
There is a big problem
when we do not recognize the moment of God's work.
That happened in the Bible to courtiers
to whom the three wise men came first.
The three wise men were watching the star.
They were astrologers and God enabled them
to see that something big is happening
in the only way they would understand.
They came to courtiers and
say: “Messiah was born!”
and they answered: “That’s right.
That happened in that town because
that's what the prophet said”, but they
themselves didn't go to Bethlehem to bow.
While Jesus cries over Jerusalem in Luke 19:44
he says: “They will dash you to the ground, you
and the children within your walls.
They will not leave one stone on
another, because you did not recognize
the time of God's coming to you.
"Why did the ruin of Jerusalem happen?
Because it did not recognize the time of God's visit.
I’d like to inspire you. And thank God
I know that a lot of others will hear
this through our YouTube channel.
We must recognize that this is the time of
God's visit. God always visits with a purpose.
Not just for us to renew and enjoy.
It needs to become the power that is
given to renew and heal this world
and coordinate it with the law of God.
So Jesus says: “They will dash you to the
ground, you and the children within your walls.
They will not leave one stone on another.”
Jesus prophesied this during
the 33rd year after Christ.
That prophecy was fulfilled in 70. AD.
That being said, it took thirty-seven years for it
to fulfil when Roman emperor Titus Vespasian
completely flattened the whole Jerusalem.
Why? "Because you did not recognize
the time of God's coming to you."
There's always a risk
that we won't recognize God's action
because that's how we are. That's why I
encourage you to become the people of the Spirit.
We all got problems with this.
I often see that it's easy for us to
understand some Biblical messages through
homily but it's hard to recognize
when it's happening to us.
Also, I often speak to the ones I follow
spiritually and say that the dryness will come,
it will get harder and you'd want to give up if
you walk in faith but that's because God wants to
bring you higher and deeper.
When the dryness comes nobody remembers that.
Everyone says: “God has left me, I should quit,
I'm fed up with everything, and this doesn't make sense.”
We need to become the people
of the Spirit, rise above our superficial
understandings, look around for what God does.
The Holy Spirit is the one that gives us that.
People in the Old Testament could not do that.
That's why Isaiah says: “As the heavens are higher
than the earth, so are my ways higher than your
ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.”
But St. Paul says that: “we have the mind of Christ.”
speaking about a spiritual man in the New Testament.
And trust me I know from personal experience.
I am not trying to sell you anything.
I'm telling you about my experience that I am living.
God has a need and desire to share
with you
what he does in the world.
We just need to learn how to listen.
And that's the art of prayer.
We need to look at prayer as
a skill of warfare, spiritual warfare.
We need to look at prayer as a skill of abidance
in God and a place to meet Him as a person.
Then the prayer won't be just boredom.
In fact, we will be searching for some extra
free time in our day for prayer.
You are prophets by baptism. The Catechism of the
Catholic Church says clearly that everyone who has
been baptized is a prophet, priest, and king.
That's your identity and your destiny.
Don't let anyone steal that from you.
Do you know what prophet Amos says?
"Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but
he revealed his secret unto his servants the prophets."
God has a desire
to share with us what's happening around us.
Open your eyes and observe.
Likewise, when He decided to destroy Sodom.
The Book of Genesis says: “Then the Lord said,
"Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do?
The parts of the Bible where God says
"Shall I" were always so interesting to me because
we see in what way he thinks. We get to
know Christ's thoughts just as St. Paul says.
The Bible says: "Why would I hide
from Abraham what I am about to do?"
I’d like to open your eyes so you
acknowledge that this is the time of grace
and we are obliged to get involved in it.
Prophetically speaking, the Church did not teach
us all to take part in it and live as saints up
until the 20th century.
On the other hand, if you take a look at the saints
and movements that were rising in our Church
throughout the 20th century,
you'll see that they were mostly directed towards that.
Look at Opus Dei for example. God lifts
Josemaria Escriva who says:
“Housewives, husbands, wives, children,
businessmen, politicians... They
all need to live a holy, supernatural life.”
Cardinal Leo Suenens writes about the times
of the new Pentecost in Malines documents.
What does the Bible say about the
new Pentecost? It says: "And afterward,
I will pour out my Spirit on all people."
We need to become God’s prophetic people that
will listen to where God is sending them to
act concretely.
Also, it is necessary
to use new methods.
In his encyclical Evangelii Nuntiandi, Pope Paul VI
says that new evangelization needs to be
new by methods and ardour.
Why?
You can’t approach the youth with
some kind of old story anymore.
You and the whole Church always need to
protect the doctrine because the doctrine saved
the Church for two thousand
years and it is of divine origin,
but the way it approaches people
the speech, and the methods it uses need to be new.
The ardour needs to be new and
that can be given only by the Holy Spirit.
Cardinal Suenens encourages us to use
the knowledge and achievements of the world.
These are the documents we
will deal with throughout this year.
That is the manifest of Catholic Charismatic
Renewal and our basic document.
It is important for us to get to know it.
Cardinal Suenens says: "A purifying critique can
come within and without. Sometimes it even
comes from our enemy.”
The saying: “It is good to learn from
your enemies.” refers to the Church too.
The Church has a binding reason for
reconsideration on a human level because
it is not a society like others.
The Message it spreads, and because of
which it exists, requires obedience of the ones
representing the institutions, as well as the
obedience of the ordinary members.
Because of the immutability of the
Message, the institution that's in
its service is obligated to accept
changes that the Message demands,
and the institution can’t be at rest.
Just like the Son of Man, the
Church has no place to lay its head.
The Church in the eschatological tension:
“straining toward what is ahead”,
lives in a constant pilgrimage and is
constantly moving on the way without
depriving the fundamental structures of
the right to determine and direct its course.
Business people hire experts to closely
examine the organization's business and
indicate technical or psychological errors
that slow down or interfere with its work.
Clearly, the comparison between the Church
and a business company isn't possible
but some principles can be applied to any
institution in which people work for a common goal.
The acceptance of critical reconsideration is
a part of every human effort and it is ignored
to your detriment.
If only this document has been taken seriously.
One of the fundamental errors
that the Church  does these days
and the reason
that this whole Movement is not greater
(it is based on a few people that truly accepted it)
is the fact that it offers sacramentalization
without evangelization.
People must be brought to the
encounter with living God firstly.
Then they need to be brought to sacraments.
Look at the fruits of the violent
sacramentalization without evangelization.
The youths can't wait to get out of the
Church after the sacrament of Confirmation.
What kind of fruit is that? Non-existing.
If there was humility that cardinal Leo Suenens
talks about just like in business companies -
where they sit down and analyse
what they are doing wrong,
our fruits would be different.
Here in this parish, we did things differently
and the ones here that came because of the
sacrament of confirmation are proof
that Jesus' method is correct. What did Jesus do?
Firstly He healed, He showed
the people that God is alive
and then He established the Eucharist.
Three years of charismatic phenomena
and then the establishment of Eucharist.
We have a confirmation for this in
the teaching of the Catholic Church.
Catechism of the Catholic Church point 1072 states:
"The sacred liturgy does not exhaust
the entire activity of the Church":
it must be preceded by evangelization,
faith, and conversion.
It can then produce its fruits in the lives of
the faithful: new life in the Spirit, involvement in the
mission of the Church, and service to her unity.
It says
that evangelization, faith, and conversion
must precede the sacred liturgy.
We chose that method here in Botinec, Zagreb.
Do you know what happened?
Everyone started loving the holy Mass.
Those who have criticized that method
the most have empty churches.
This is an encouragement
to all of us to reassess,
to get back to our roots, as Jesus says:
"come back to the first Love"
and to His method that was successful
because of twelve fishermen,
the strongest organization in history was established,
if we observe the Church as just an organization.
That organization has survived to this day.
I divided that renewal, that we from the spiritual
renewal are obligated to transmit to the world,
into five points.
There are probably more than five but as
I was praying, God had put this on my heart
to share with you. I believe that these
are the most important for you now.
The first renewal that must proceed
from the spiritual renewal is moral renewal.
Firstly, the restoration of the moral law.
The moral law is necessary
and it won't be achieved
without an encounter with living God.
How many times did people try to
enforce some laws by force?
How many times did they try to
make their children
do something they didn't want to by force
or try to make people in their companies and
communities do what they want by force,
without relying on the Holy Spirit.
We can see what their results are.
What people do out of fear,
they won't do permanently but
only while the fear lasts.
What people do out of love, from the internal
encouragement,
they will do permanently and they will be willing
to invest their lives in it.
I used a lot of texts from Pope Leo XII in this lecture.
He was the first who spoke in this way.
He opened the Church to the world
and restored its reputation.
His mission was to bring Christianity closer
to the contemporary currents without giving up
Christian principles.
He wrote the following:
"Religion is a wellspring of prosperity and
greatness for one nation and the main foundation
of a well-ordered society.
Indeed,
when the religious feeling that
uplifts, ennobles the soul,
and instils in it the principles
of justice and honesty weakens,
one begins to fall and indulge in wild instincts
and the sole pursuit of material interests.
From there, as a logical consequence, hostilities,
disagreements, corrupt conflicts,
and disorder of good order come.
All this
cannot successfully and completely repair
neither the rigor of the law nor the penalties of
the courts nor the use of armed force itself."
The pope clearly says that we can't expect
the moral renewal to happen without or with just
a superficial religion but with one that truly
guides us to the encounter with living God.
Even one of the greatest critiques of the Church
and one of the ideologists of the French Revolution,
Francois Voltaire,
realized that true order can emerge
only from the awe of God.
He said his famous sentence: "If God did not
exist, it would be necessary to invent him."
When they asked him why
he answered: "Just because it would maintain the order."
This has been said by one of the greatest
ideologists of the French revolution
even though he opposed the Church and the
position of the clergy:"If God did not exist, it would be
necessary to invent him.“
True moral change can come only from
the experience of meeting the living God.
I decided not to commit some sins, for
example: that I will live premarital purity, that
I will give up some vices, just after
I met Jesus Christ as a person.
That encounter is moving.
People these days often portray God as lukewarmly.
He is Love, you're allowed to do anything...
But not exactly! Every encounter
with living God is shocking.
I had the opportunity of meeting the seers
from Medjugorje and the seer Ivan that he had
only ten years when our Lady appeared to him
said that he spent that night under his bed
because he was scared the Lady will come again.
He said it was nice, full of love, but it was also scary.
When Jacob had his first mystical experience
with God he said: "How terrifying is this place."
That encounter shakes us from within.
If we have a sense of sacredness,
that sense will encourage the
other moral virtues in us.
One song says: “something is holy if
you tremble in front of it and admire it.”
If you develop that sense, you'll change easily.
Who knows who the author of this song is?
I have heard it on the local radio the other day.
Who would have said you can
find something useful there.
That is the only way
a true moral renewal can occur.
Jesus said to the St. Faustina Kowalska
in her diary, paragraph 699:
"Mankind will not have peace
until it turns to the Fount of My Mercy."
A return to the Lord is the only way
to achieve moral and every other renewal.
Every attempt to unite people and
peoples without God will fail.
The first such attempt is
known in the tower of Babel
in the book of Genesis 5.
People gathered without God and started to
build a tower that will reach the heavens.
Do you know what happened?
God confused their language.
God will confuse the language of every such attempt.
Look at the League of Nations, look at the
European Union and how it is falling apart,
and look at Yugoslavia. All those attempts had failed.
Look at the Church. It has remained for 2000 years
because it is built on the foundations and the truth.
The truth isn't an ideology.
The truth is a person.
That is why Jesus said: "I am the
way and the truth and the life.”
The questions of what is the truth, which
option and ideology are true are superfluous.
In the Hebrew way of thinking,
everything that is true possesses endurance,
persistence, and the future.
One of the greatest theologians of the
20th century, Cardinal Walter Kasper, says
in his book Evangelium und Dogma the following:
"The truth is always revealed
and manifested over time."
Everything that is true possesses
endurance, persistence, and the future.
So it takes time for the truth to reveal itself.
That's why the Church has survived.
Not because it is holy, trust me, there are
often cases when it's worse in the Church than
in the world. I am familiar with
those structures so I know.
But because it is of Divine origin
and that origin is Jesus Christ.
When somebody experiences God's
love it is not hard for him to keep order.
When we started working with the youths here
the school director told me that some of
them are the most undisciplined ones
in the whole school and that he has
to call their parents almost every day.
Do you know what is happening now?
Each one of them has a programme.
It is a prayer programme that often includes
up to 2 hours of prayer, training, and studying.
When their programme expires they
come to us and ask for a new one.
They want to be disciplined
because they want growth.
In psychology, we see that the
fundamental longing of a soul is for order.
The moral renewal won't be a problem when
that authentic encounter with God happens,
when you experience God's, authentic love.
The second renewal,
preceded by moral renewal,
is the renewal of the family.
Family is the most attacked these days.
If we look at the prophetic signs,
sister Lucia from Fatima
warns us that humanity's last battle
will be a battle for the family.
From the movements in the world
through gender revolution, the violent
imposition of the Istanbul Convention,
and so on, we can see that that battle already began.
I'm asking you to have a prophetic view.
We need to fight against that
and be aware that we have
enough weapons for that fight.
How many times did a few people beat a
kingdom or overthrow the empire just by
firmly relying on God?
Look at the Battle of Vienna, Battle of Lepanto.
Look at the phenomenon related to our
Lady of Sinj (Croatia).
Our Lady of Fatima would not announce
that if we couldn't rely on her.
We can see what does Our Lady has
to say to families today in some of her revelations.
I'll use a text from Our Lady's
message to Stefano Gobbi.
And that's why I encourage all of
you, especially the ones who are parents
or are planning to become ones, to rely on Mary.
Our families will survive if we commit them to Mary.
Blessed Cardinal Stepinac declared that
love would return to the families
if the prayer of rosary returned.
Saint Mother Teresa whose statue
we have here and who preached here
at this pulpit said: "Family that
prays together stays together."
We will see what Our Lady says
to the  families that commit to her:
"I am comforted by this day that has
passed in prayer and simple and cordial
unity with this family that is dedicated
to me and belongs to me.
I love you and I am with you. I am speaking
to you and I am guiding you because
you're the means of my mothers will.
These days I gather families and take
them into the depths of my immaculate hearth
where I offer them shelter, safety,
consolation, and defence.
As I love to be called the Mother
and the Queen of my priests,
I love to be called the Mother and
the Queen of families devoted to me.
I watch over their lives,
care about their concerns,
I am interested in the spiritual and
material goods of all of its members.
When you commit a family
to my immaculate hearth
it is the same as if you opened the door
of your home to Heavenly mother.
You are asking her to come
in and you are giving her
space so she could perform
her maternal duty even more.
Where I enter, the sin comes out.
Where I reside, Divine mercy
and light are always present.
Where I live, purity, and holiness live
and since the sacrament of marriage
gives you the special grace to grow together,
I have to strengthen the unity of a family,
bring husband and wife to
deeper spiritual communion
and perfect their worldly love,
and put in Jesus's heart.
I am constantly strengthening family unity and
leading all of its members to greater understanding.
I am giving new senses for needs, for
even stronger, stronger, and deeper unity."
That is the strength we have to rely on.
If we want a renewal of families it has to
happen throughout the prayer.
There are many examples where a
husband and his wife had completely
unsolvable situations, they couldn't even
talk for a second without fighting
and we would just encourage
them to pray the rosary.
Some amazing testimonies came out of that.
I experienced it myself in my family.
There were a lot of quarrels before,
you'd say we were just like a normal family.
My sister Lucija is also here,
she'd say everything is fine.
But a family must have the
same atmosphere as a nest.
I remember that when I was coming
back from school I'd rather go to
some kind of a cafe and stay
there than come home.
Arguments, intolerance, lack of love...
I remember the feeling I had when we started
to pray the rosary again. I was
feeling happy  to come back home.
I thought
I'd never feel that.
Why that happened?
The prayer of the rosary brings us back
the love, unity, and it strengthens the relations.
Likewise, I encourage all of you that still
haven't done The Nine Fridays Devotion to start today.
Today is the first Friday this month.
Use this mercy of Jesus's Heart.
Jesus promised to St Margaret Mary Alacoque:
"I will establish peace in their families."
I encourage the ones that began
with this Devotion to persist.
The third renewal that is very
important and is in a crisis these days
is the renewal of the national feeling.
We must be proud
for being Croats and we must be patriots.
That doesn't mean that we impair
the value of other nations.
Jesus was a patriot.
He wept over Jerusalem.
St. Paul, as a Jew who preached to
Gentiles, went that far that he said:
“I'd burn in hell just for my
people of Israel to convert.”
The truth is that the Jews are the
greatest patriots and they have no
equal but that statement from a man like Paul,
who knows pretty well what does burning in hell mean...
He said I would burn in hell just
for my people of Israel to convert
and realize that Jesus Christ is the Messiah.
Saints give us an example that
we have to have that healthy patriotism.
It is obvious that the new world order
wants to destroy that through the
process of globalization.
Globalization leads to the state
where everything comes down to one.
One language,
one culture,
one type of music, even one type of food.
When I was in Lisbon recently
with my girlfriend we were
searching for a place
to hear Fado and eat some Portuguese
food because we were in Portugal.
We ended up in the Hard Rock
Cafe and McDonald’s.
That has been done. They
want to destroy that feeling.
Why? Because when you eradicate
someone and steal his identity,
when he doesn't know where he is
heading and where he came from,
one can easily be manipulated.
And that's why
we have to
protect,
jealously protect,
our national identity.
The Church always encourages
healthy nationalism.
We need to differ healthy
and unhealthy nationalism.
One of them is destructive, directed
towards the hate of someone
and that one will never bring good fruits.
A healthy nationalism is
directed towards creativity
and a will to renew
and revive your nation,
towards your wish to raise children
and give them to your nation so it survives,
towards you staying here
and not moving abroad.
Among us are some who
will one day testify
that they chose to stay here
and leave a better salary in Germany
thanks to the work of our community.
I speak to them almost every day and,
believe me, none of them feel any regrets.
Don't fall for that story. Open your eyes
and get out of that pusillanimity. Pusillanimity
that we live in is almost like a demon.
A demon needs to be evicted. We the
members of the deliverance ministry know
that it is necessary to tear down his house too.
The house that is established
on lies and bad news.
This house convinced us that it's not
possible to succeed here on our territory.
There are 200 of us in our community.
We have youths in college, the ones
that finished college and are now
working but no one is unemployed.
Not a single one of us was
unemployed for more than a month.
God won't abandon you.
That's one more area that we need
to look at as prophets and open our eyes.
We need to enter that healthy nationalism.
Pope Pius XI says: "Unrestrained
nationalism is the fruit of the
lust of the flesh, the lust of
the eyes, and the pride of life.
We must distinguish healthy
and unhealthy nationalism.”
I encourage you to do so.
How will you love your homeland?
As deceased president, Kennedy says:
"Ask not what your country can do
for you—ask what you can do for your country."
This is an opportunity.
If we look to the end
prophetically, biblically speaking
emigration has always been a sign of a curse.
Do you know who the first
wanderer on Earth was?
Do you know?
Cain, that is right.
Cain was a murderer. Let's see what his curse was.
After he killed his brother, God says this to Cain:
"And the Lord said, "What have you done?
Listen; your brother's blood
is crying out to me from the ground!
And now you are cursed from the ground,
which has opened its mouth to receive your
brother's blood from your hand.
When you till the ground, it will no
longer yield to you its strength;
you will be a fugitive and
a wanderer on the earth."
We can clearly see a biblical
and spiritual law that says:
your brother's blood is crying out to me
from the ground and the repercussion:
you will be a fugitive and
a wanderer on the earth.
What we are obligated to do
as God's prophetical nation
is to make the atonement and
repentance for a great amount of blood
that is crying out from the ground for justice.
That's why the descendants
cannot be at peace and they wander.
Leviticus says that
when you rejected the Lord,
and gone after other gods,
I will scatter thee among the heathen.
What is happening to us is a sign of a curse.
Material conditions are way
better than they were before.
People nowadays fear to have more
children because they are scared
they won't be able to afford them something.
Take a look at how many
children our families had before
fifty or seventy years although
they couldn't afford much.
They literally had just bread and milk.
Maybe an orange for Christmas.
That's my grandfather's story.
Open your eyes! I want you to rise
from this situation and understand
the position we are in
The solution to this emigration
is in repentance
for past events.
As long as we don't remove that
spiritual barrier that's above us
there will be no blessings.
This church wasn't full up
until we removed that
spiritual barrier here in Botinec, Zagreb.
Whatever started here, it was going
for a month or two and fell silent.
God will give a blessing.
He gave us the tools.
That is a thing I want to teach you
through the upcoming year.
I listed two more specific renewals
that this renewal of national
feeling should lead to.
The first one is the renewal of economics.
God wants to bless his children
with material goods too.
Here is the first lie
that the devil tells us:
God wants to deprive us of material goods.
He is a tyrant. God wants us away from pleasure.
That is not true!
God created all the trees and
said eat from every tree
except this one in the middle.
It was the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil.
Meaning you decide for yourself
what is good and what is bad.
The devil comes and says: “Did God say,
You shall not eat from any tree in the garden?”
We need to differ the extremes. The extreme
of the prosperity, the gospel says that we
must only carry out the commandments
of God if we want to be blessed.
That is wrong. It is a heresy.
And the other extreme
that states that only poverty
can lead to holiness.
Also not true!
God wants to bless his nation.
God is a Father.
Which father would not want
his children to have material goods
if he knew it would not ruin them?
He will deny them something only
when he knows it is leading them to perdition.
Why do we think we are better than God?
Didn't Jesus say: "If you then, though
you are evil, know how to give good gifts
to your children, how much more
will your Father in heaven give..."
When I read the extension
of Our Lady's message
I wasn't sure is that Our Lady
or Benny Hinn speaking.
It is not that funny for those of you
who don't know who Benny Hinn is.
He is one of the most famous preachers
of the prosperity gospel, who has a private
plane and has caused many scandals.
Our Lady says:
"I stand up for the material goods
of families that are dedicated to me.
Children are the most
precious good of a family.
Children are a sign of Jesus's
and my special love.
I take special care of your job as well.
I never leave you without God's providence.
I take and open your hands to God's
plan that He accomplishes every day
with the help of your cooperation.
Just like my humble, faithful, and
daily maternal action in a little,
poor Nazareth cottage made it
possible for the God’s plan, which
was realized in the human growth
of my son Jesus who was called to
execute the work of a redeemer
and your salvation, to fulfil.
That's how I call you to follow
the Fathers' plan that is achieved
with help of your human
collaboration and daily work.
You have to do your part
just like heavenly Father does his.“
If you look closely, spiritual renewal
always preceded material renewal.
Just look at Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Take a look at the two places where
authentic spiritual renewal took place:
the parish Surkovac and the parish Medjugorje.
Look at how do people live there now.
At the moment when Fra Ivo Pavic
came to Surkovac, he came from
a doctorate in Gregorian in Rome.
He came to a parish with barely a few
dozen Catholics and a destroyed church.
God spoke to Fra Ivo, gave him a vision
that there will a source of living water be.
These days, there are 20 to 50
busses on the weekends.
He built a stadium.
All the children from the parish go
to Zagreb for education and come
back to Surkovac.
Out of nowhere... That man baptizes
at least ten Muslims every Easter because
they see that God is alive.
That is a resource that you have in your hands.
Just look at Medjugorje.
There were three hundred tobacco
and vineyard growers, Herzegovinians there.
I mean, the Herzegovinians
know their business but...
What came from that? We were at the
Medjugorje Youth Festival not too long ago.
More than 70 000 young people were there.
You can see all the different
flags of the world there.
That renewal happened in
less than 40 years.
Whatever is started there, succeeds.
The real spiritual renewal will
lead to that kind of well-being
because God does not neglect his people
but He asks us to meet our conditions.
That's why I encourage you that
are still young to be enterprising.
When I was in Poland on a youth
formation with Marin, when we
were jumping through the
Special Forces camp in Wroclaw,
we saw a thing that
did not happen here.
They used up every cent of European funds
and renovated orchards and built
highways. Poland lives from that.
Poland has a government
such that the head of it recently declared
that his only goal is to harmonize the
state's laws with God's law.
I am calling you. Have the interest, be
enterprising, and overcome that discouragement.
Especially now when you're finishing
college. Start thinking about that.
The most important thing is for someone
to tell you that it really is possible.
It is possible!
And you as Christians need to
be the ones who withdraw.
Let us take a look at what
the Popes say.
Pope Pius XI states:
"The Church is a source of temporal prosperity.
We thought, on the other hand,
that those who run the public affairs
would search for original causes
of rebellion and fratricidal struggle
and that they would recognize fatal
but natural fruit of the bad seed
that was planted on the Italian peninsula
with impunity and for a long time."
Furthermore, the Pope says: “Only the
principles of Christian social organization
are the ones that renew nations and
they become the condition of their
material prosperity." Let us look
at what Pope Leo XII says:
"The Church is a source of temporal
prosperity. Although the Church as
an immortal work of merciful God
strives for the salvation of souls and
eternal happiness - it is in the
very realm of human things;
by the time of such and so
many benefits, that it would
not be able to obtain them
greater and more if it were
constitutional chapters and
directly in order to guarantee
the welfare of this life."
In translation, he says that if we
were to remove the supernatural part,
which is the most important, or
shortly, the salvation of souls,
the effect of Church doctrine
on material prosperity would
be sufficient to guarantee prosperity
in life and the irreplaceable role of
Church in history.
That
is something we need
to become aware of.
Our lifestyle here, in the
community, needs to spread out.
We need to learn how to operate
following the law of God.
In his book "Fighting Corruption and Sin",
Pope Francis says:
"Sin is forgiven but corruption
cannot be forgiven. It must be cured.
A corrupted man is not aware
of his condition and he becomes
contagious for society. Corruption is a
cobweb that spreads by imposing complicity.
A rotten hearth can no longer
see its sin, rather the hearth
makes a lifestyle out of sin by elevating
it to a level of virtue or at least socially
acceptable norms."
That is the renewal I am talking about.
Christian entrepreneurs need to be
the ones that will show that a
righteous way is possible.
God gives his blessing to that.
Trust me, I am saying this
from my own experience
and the experiences of many friends
that dared to leave their business to God.
The last renewal that needs to
happen but many run away from it...
They say: "Politics is dirty.",
"Politics is a...", there
are many expressions.
I have heard a good one lately:
"Politics is not electricity, but it kills."
Christians are obliged to engage in politics.
The fifth renewal is a political renewal.
God created the world and since
then has been leading it in one
specific way - through people.
In the Bible, we can see that a change
always begins with the revelation
of God to a man. Either to Abraham or
Moses or through Jesus who gets an
anointing for a specific act.
The Church is independent of any
party policy and does not aspire
to political domination, but it has
a prophetic role. Therefore, the Church
must warn
whenever the passed laws are not in
accordance with or break the law of God.
The Church must encourage the lay
believers to get actively involved
in healthy political options
that foster Christian values.
Maybe there are very few of these
options just because you are passive.
God hates lukewarmness more than anything.
In the book of Revelation we
spot such a harsh Jesus' charge:
"I wish you were either one or the other!
So, because you are lukewarm—neither
hot nor cold—I am about to
spit you out of my mouth."
We can see that God is
disgusted by lukewarmness.
That is why we need to become
aware of the responsibility we have
and get involved in one way or
another. You can do it by voting.
Start praying and be open and let
God show you where and in which
way He is calling you.
Take a look at what does blessed
Ivan Merz says about this topic:
"It is a delusion to want to completely
separate religion from politics.
Whoever claims that divine laws
apply only to private and not to
public and state life and that the Church
must not interfere in political life
falls under the condemnation of liberalism.
Catholics have a duty to engage in politics.
The faith commands Catholics to
participate in political and social life.
Let Catholics take over public services
and participate in public affairs so that
that they can be christianized."
We can see that Popes went that far
and they said that Catholics
must enrol in political options
even if they are not
completely in accordance with
Church law so they can heal them.
I've had an opportunity to talk to Columbian
missionary Marino Restrepo - one of the
greatest prophets of our days.
We talked about politics in particular
and he brought up the
example of the prophet Daniel.
Daniel was at the court of the pagan
kings' Nebuchadnezzar and Cyrus
but he made a great number of good
decisions for the people of Israel there.
If we want to wash our
hands of that responsibility
by saying that some options are
just too dirty,
too far away from God's law,
that they are too repulsive,
let's take a look at what
the Popes say about that.
Pope Leo XIII says:
"Let Catholics participate in public
affairs even where legislation is ungodly.
In defending the faith, Catholics must be
united in the political field, even if they are in
more than one allowed party."
The Pope encourages us to a certain cunning.
Jesus himself said: "So be as shrewd
as snakes and harmless as doves.”
I know it won't be easy, but
the Pope encourages us
to take that responsibility as well.
Even if everything is ungodly,
take part in it and be as the prophet Daniel.
The prophet Daniel was
as if inserted by God
into all these authorities, and
in the end, with his prayer and
advice, he led the people of Israel
to return from the Babylonian exile
to the Promised Land.
So we don't need to wait until
everything is perfect because it
won't be perfect that soon.
We need to be the ones that will heal.
In the end, I will give you
an example of such a ruler
a saint as a role model.
So you can see that what
I'm talking about really is possible.
There were such politicians in
the 20th century as well.
Josip will talk about
Robert Schumman, but this
is a role model...
Does anyone know who this saint is?
This is Saint Louis IX.
He was a French canonized king
from the Kapetovic dynasty.
He used to feed 120 poor people
in his court and he completely
eradicated poverty from France.
He advocated for that himself.
He did not neglect schooling. He founded
the Sorbonne University that is one of the
best universities nowadays.
He was a man of deep faith, he regularly
prayed breviary, approached the sacraments,
fasted often, performed strict penances.
France was experiencing the greatest
material and spiritual
blessing during his reign.
He was married to Margaret and it is
well known that they had a harmonious
and gentle marriage. That is very
rare for the Middle Ages when
marriage was often
seen as a necessary evil.
They found each other, but the
wives could hardly wait for her
husband to die so they can go to the
convent. That is what some married saints did.
Here it states that Louis and Margaret had
had a harmonious marriage, gentle love,
and eleven children.
Louis blessed and prayed for each
of these children in the evening.
Later on, I will play for you the will
that he wrote to his heir son.
He died in the Crusades where
he answered the Pope's call.
We can see an example of a true Christian
ruler and an example that it is possible.
And such a ruler is a fruit of prayer.
How did Moses come to Israel?
Because people were crying. It is said,
"The cry of the Israelites ascended to the Lord,"
and the fruit of that cry was the call of Moses.
We too are invited to get involved and
pray for those in authority so God sends
us such people.
We can see the will that Louis writes to his son:
"Dear son, first of all, I teach you to love
the Lord your God with all your
heart and with all your strength.
Without that, there is no salvation.
May your heart be gentle when it comes
to the poor, the wretched, and the sad.
Come to their aid according to
your abilities and comfort them.
Be thankful to God for all the
good deeds he has given you
and so you will be worthy
to receive even greater.
Be righteous to your subjects,
and keep the line of righteousness,
and do not turn to the
right or to the left.
Until you are sure where
the truth is, be more on
the side of the poor than the rich.
Take care that all your subjects
keep justice and peace."
Imagine politicians writing such
messages to their successors nowadays.
Where would we be...?
What I want to tell you is:
do not lose hope because Christ
is our head and we rely on him.
We rely on Christ who is the living
God and who will never run out of
strength and happiness.
We are the members of His
body and He is the head.
He constantly renews, revives, and
gives new strength to his Church.
What you need to do is to believe.
When the crowd pushed around Jesus,
thousands pushed around him,
one woman touched him with faith.
He asked: "Who touched me?"
Saint Peter rightly asked Jesus: "The
multitude throng thee and press thee,
and sayest thou, who touched me?"
Jesus replied: "Somebody hath
touched me." and He said
that he perceived that because:
"virtue is gone out of me."
If we truly believe in the Lord,
that power that is in Him will be
released in us as well and
we will watch His miracles.
He will heal your tiredness,
lukewarmth, hopelessness,
disappointment and he will
give you the new strength.
There wasn't a single young man when
we started operating in this parish.
This Saturday we had the first
wedding in our community.
Thank God, there were around
400 people but mostly youth.
I remembered that back when we
started there wasn't a single one.
I remembered that quote that Patriarch
Jacob said when he came before Pharaoh,
he says: "I came here alone, and behold,
I have become a multitude of people."
It is the living God who can do
this in your heart, in your family,
in your parish and everywhere
you come to be the salt of the earth
and the light of the world.
Amen.